OSE (8.0)

Copyright 1992-1993 OTC LIMITED
Copyright 1994 TELSTRA CORPORATION LIMITED
Copyright 1994-2004 DUMPLETON SOFTWARE CONSULTING PTY LIMITED

All rights reserved.

This software contains licensed program materials which are the copyright
of Telstra Corporation Limited and which are licensed to Dumpleton Software
Consulting Pty Limited by Telstra Corporation Limited.

To the best of its knowledge Dumpleton Software Consulting Pty Limited has
the right to grant permission to use this software under the terms listed
below.

The build environment called "makeit" which is contained within the
"makeit" subdirectory is made available under the terms of a BSD style
license. Details of this license are contained in the "makeit/LICENSE"
file. The "makeit" subdirectory may be extracted from the whole OSE package
and separately distributed if desired.

The source code for the C++ library which is contained within the "library"
and "include" subdirectories and the resultant libraries created from
compiling that source code may be used and distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Q Public License version 1.0, a copy of which can be
found in the "LICENSE" file.

The source code for the Python wrappers encapsulating aspects of the
functionality provided by the C++ library and which are contained within
the "python", "netrpc", "netsvc" and "zsirpc" directories, are made
available under the terms of a BSD style license. Details of this license
are contained in the "setup.py" file.

Note that the resultant loadable module created to support the Python
wrappers will contain object code resulting from the compilation of code
from the C++ library. Under normal circumstances this would mean that use
of the Python wrappers would also be governed by the terms and conditions
of the Q Public License. As a special exception, provided that no changes
are made to the source code for the C++ library itself, the Python wrappers
may be used without the terms and conditions of the Q Public License
applying to your Python based application. This exception does not
invalidate any other reason why an application making use of the C++
library might be covered by the terms and conditions of the Q Public
License.

Any other C++ and/or Python code provided with OSE in the way of example
or test programs may be used for any purpose under the terms of the same
BSD style license listed in the "setup.py" file.
