This package contains "makeit", a build environment targeted at developers
using the C and C++ programming languages.

Makeit uses the freely available and widely portable GNU make program.
GNU make provides a range of extensions to standard make functionality far
surpassing features available in commercial offerings. Makeit builds on
this functionality to provide a library of predefined functionality which
is included into your makefile and controlled through a limited number of
variables. Your makefiles remain simple as all those rules you would
otherwise have to write are out of sight. Further, all the variations
implicit in supporting different compilers and host operating systems are
also hidden, meaning not only will your makefile be simple, but it will be
portable.

With the introduction of version 8.0, makeit is being made available under
a BSD style license. You may install makeit into a standard location and
use it from there, or copy the package into a subdirectory of your own
project and use it from there instead.

Please note that version 8.0 of makeit was restructured substantially in
comparison to the version supplied with version 7.0 of OSE. Various
questionable features have been dropped for the sake of simplicitly and the
naming conventions employed changed. Do not expect your existing makefiles
to work without some changes being required.

Any questions you may have should be directed to the "Help" web forum on
the OSE web site at [http://ose.sourceforge.net]. Make it clear in your
posts which version of this package you are using. You can find out exactly
which version of this package you are using by looking in the "PACKAGE"
file located in the same directory that this file resides.
